now Arab leaders have called for an
immediate end to Israeli military
operations in Gaza rejecting Israel's
justification of its actions as
self-defense the Islamic Arab Summit
hosted by Saudi Arabia has urged the
international criminal court to
investigate war crimes it accuses Israel
of committing in the Palestinian
territories the leaders have called for
an end to the siege of Gaza and a halt
to Arms exports to Israel but the
leaders did not approve Collective
economic or political measures against
Israel let's get more on this with Sara
bazuband a fellow at the German
Institute of global and area Studies
Institute of Middle East studies uh
welcome the closing statement from this
Riyad Summit has condemned Israel and
called for a ceasefire can you tell us
more about what was agreed on uh
concretely thank you uh yes um several
proposals were uh discussed uh
especially some radical ones that were
proposed by uh the Iranian president
including putting an oil embargo on
Israel or freezing diplomatic relations
with Israel or um opposing presence of
American forces in the region that are
in support of Israel um and all of these
proposals were rejected so and the vote
was Anonymous so we don't know who voted
against them and who voted in support of
these proposals but some of the uh sort
of older positions of both the um
Islamic
organization and the Arab League because
as you mentioned this was a joint
meeting most of the points that were
previously endorsed by both
organizations were agreed upon uh for
example two-state solution uh or uh
protection of um the right of civilians
um so there is uh still quite whil in my
opinion whilst this meeting was quite um
a big gesture and an important symbolic
event but in the content of it there
wasn't really something new that we did
not hear uh prior to the meeting now it
is interesting that Iran was at the
table at this meeting what does that
tell
you well Iran is a member of the um
Islamic cooperation organization and uh
for that reason Iran was invited but um
there were if you look at this footages
of of the event the way that uh the
Saudi Crown Prince uh welcomed on the
red carpet in the big grand hall in
Riyad um presis RI um it was quite um a
new gesture you know Iran and Saudi
Arabia until very recently were
considered staunch rivals in that part
of the world and now um this was I think
a very strong gesture again very strong
symbol um again position of Iran wasn't
something surprising um I follow Iranian
media in fary very closely I follow the
senior officials senior members of
clergy inside Iran and uh they there
have been really uh strong statements
made and prison R's points were very
similar and in line with those um so
presence of Iran wasn't something that
Iran was specifically invited to the
Arab League it was on the side of you
know the second Summit that both Summits
were by the way Jew and that's why they
decided to merge them uh and so his
presence wasn't wasn't particularly
unique but the way that he was received
and the points that he made were quite
um worth paying attention
now just briefly can you tell us also
about Saudi Arabia because it was
pursuing potential normalization with
Israel ahead of the Hamas
attack yes I think Saudi Arabia is still
going to pursue that but is trying to
position itself in a in a very uh
careful manner to maintain its position
of a leading Arab Nation um but Abraham
Accord and um Saudi desire to Norm and
to establish diplomatic relations with
Israel is a part of a bigger plan to
change Saudi Arabia and that's not going
to change with this attacks Sarah thank
you so much for that that's Sarah
bazuband a fellow at the German
Institute of global and area studies we
really appreciate your
time